There's just two more components we need to create very quickly.
We're going to get through these rather fast because they're really the same as two components we put
together before.
So we're going to make common create and comment list.
Let's get to it.
Well, first start with come and create back inside my editor for the React Project.
I'm going to make a new file inside the CRC directory called Comment Create Dogs.
Inside of here, we'll import React.
Right away.
And then create a new component and export it like so.
And for right now, I'll just return once again an empty div.
Now let's think about what Comet Create really needs to do.
Come and Create is going to represent this form right here.
So users going to type in some content for the comment and then click on Submit.
The expectation is that we should take whatever content the user enters and make a post request off
to our comment service.
Now one thing I want to point out in particular is that whenever we create a comment, we have to know
the ID of the post that we are associating that comment with.
So inside of our comment create component, we need to know the post that this comment is going to be
associated with.
So long story short, whenever our post list or a post inside a post list.
Is going to create a common create component.
We need to pass down the ID of the post that it's going to be associated with.
That's the long and short of it.
So inside of Comet Create, we're going to assume that this thing is going to receive a prop.
So we're going to receive some props right here that's going to contain something like post ID or something
very similar.
I don't really expect to receive any other props inside this thing, so I'm going to structure out just
this post ID value.
Okay.
So we're not going to make use of post ID just yet, but I just want to talk about it right away just
to make sure it's really clear.
Yeah, we needed to know the ID of the post that we're going to associate this comment with.
So now we can start to put together the rest of this component.
To get started.
Let's work on a little bit of mock markup.
I'm going to expand this div.
Inside there.
We're going to want a form element because this thing is all about showing a form that the user is going
to enter some text into inside that will place a div with the class name of form group.
Inside that div will do an input.
And right above that, let's do a label as well.
On the label.
I'll give it some text like how about new comment?
On the input.
Let's add in a class name there as well.
I'll do form dash control, let in some event listeners and whatnot in just a moment.
First, right outside of that closing div that we've got right there, I'm going to add in a button.
That says submit.
And I'll give it a class name as well of BTN Primary.
Okay.
So this is a good start.
Now we need to make sure that we've got a piece of state that's going to track whatever value a user
has inside this input.
We need to make sure we've got an event handler on the form itself to watch for a summit event.
And we need to make sure that we've got a function that's actually going to make a post request off
to our comments microservice and attempt to persist the given comment.
So let's get to it.
Let's first add in.
The U.S. state hook.
We're going to create a new piece of state that's going to track whatever value the user has inside
that input.
So we'll say, how about content and set content?
It's going to come from your state and we'll give it a default value of empty string.
Then we can set up some event handlers and value centers on the input itself.
So I'll say that this things value is going to be equal to content.
And it's going to have an unchanged event listener.
Whenever a user changes this input, we're going to receive an event which once again will abbreviate
just as E!
And we'll use that things target value property to update our content piece of state.
We'll say set content e target value.
Okay.
That looks good.
So now let's work on the form itself.
We're going to add in and on Submit Listener.
Once again, any time this thing gets submitted, we'll call a function that will call simply on submit.
So let's define that function right away.
So on submit is going to be an async function because we probably need to make a request inside of here.
Because this is a form submission.
Once again, we're going to receive that event object and call prevent default on it.
And so now finally, right here is where we're going to want to take our content and the post ID and
use them to make requests off to our comments.
Microservice So let's make sure that we import Axios at the top so we can actually make that request.
And then inside of here we'll do an await Axios dot post.
It's going to be a post request because we want to create a new comment and then remember the path that
we said that we were going to use for that microservice.
We said that we were going to make a post request to posts slash the ID of the post.
We care about slash comments.
We were going to include a body of content and that was going to have a string.
So inside of here we'll use a template string.
Notice I'm using the back ticks and we'll say http colon, slash, slash.
Local host.
And then remember our comments.
Microservice is at Port 4001.
We'll do such posts and then we'll do some string templating here and put in our post ID, which we
discussed a little bit ago.
That's coming in as a prop.
Slash comments.
And we'll make sure that we provide the actual content inside the body of the request that's inside
this object right here provided as the second argument.
And we'll throw our content inside there.
So that should create a new comment and associate it with a given post.
Right after we make this request successfully, we're going to once again clear out the value of that
input.
So we're going to reset the inputs value back to an empty string just to make sure it's clear to a user
that, hey, your comment has been persisted.
Right after that, I'll do a set content of empty string.
Yes, Alex.
Good.
Now, before we test this, we need to make sure we actually show this component somewhere.
Remember, we want to show that component.
Inside of our post list.
Every single post that we display needs to have an instance of comment create displayed right underneath
it.
So we'll go into post list and find where we iterate over our list of posts to build out this list right
here.
So I will go back over to post listings.
I'm going to scroll it to the very top and I will import post or semi comment create.
From comment create.
Well, then find where we mapped over all those posts.
Here's the mapping statement right here.
So this is where we display the title of the post.
And as we just saw in our mockup, we want to display that form right underneath it.
So right after that div or see me right after the H three my mistake.
We want it to be inside the div.
So it's got that card body class applied to it.
We're going to display our comment rate component and we will make sure that we give it.
It's a required property, which is the post ID.
We'll say post ID.
And we've got access to the post IDs via this post variable right here.
So we'll pass in post ID.
Okay.
That should be it.
Let's save this.
We'll flip back over and once again, do a quick test so I can now see my comment creation form.
I'll enter in a comment and then submit it.
And with my network request tab open, I can see that that comment was created successfully.
All right, so it looks pretty good.
Now, the last thing we have to do here is just make sure we put together the comment list component.
So quick pause.
Work on that component.
Finish it up in just a moment.